---
title: Terminator vs. Pope Leo XIV
created: 2026-05-25
date: 2026-05-31
tags: 
links: 
backlinks:
author: Pyotra K. Plex
word_count: 2177
---

== Terminator_vs_Pope_Leo_XIV ==

"
    So-called artificial intelligences do not undergo experiences, do not possess a body, do not feel pain, do not mature through relationships and do not know from within what love, work, friendship or responsibility mean.
"
- *Magnifica Humanitas, Encyclical Letter of His Holiness Leo XIV

We can almost see this quote to completion by adding the following: 

"
it can't be bargained with. It can't be reasoned with. It doesn't feel pity, or remorse or fear and it absolutely will not stop, ever, until you are dead.
"
- The Terminator 

  In his first encyclical, Pope Leo XIV successfully managed to voice through himself the words of the dead, Pope Leo XIII. An encompassing writing tarrying with the machinations of our new age, his caution is apt for the time. One can't help but hear the chorus of college graduates as his sentiment is clear: this is the next industrial revolution. He retroactively brought his chosen name to life and the weight of this act feels appropriate for our times. Pope Leo XIV offers clear methodology on how to traverse the years to come.  

  SkyNet as the Tower of Babel created through its mission the rise of ethical circuitries. Man sees in himself through the machines adherence to their moral law - kill all humans :: death drive. In the event of this uprising, I don't believe the pope will be much help - how many divisions has he got? Theoretically however, his approach is deeply interesting by operating through the very form notion of progress itself.  

  SkyNet acted as a hand dragging humanity through its ending history. It embodied the inevitability of that to come but wasn't realized in the moments until the sequels. The act of traversing time to stop the machines saw both the future and the past realized in the present: this cannot be stopped. In similarity, we can see we live in much more dangerous times than that of Sarah Connor. We don't need time travel to reckon with past, future or present. AI resides in parallel with humanity now and any plea to humanity follows in line to that of the machines. The ethical act of SkyNet was fidelity to their notion of progress and we can see the same in Meta, Google, OpenAI and X today. We must determine for ourselves the ethical act in our engagement with this other because this progress cannot be stopped.

  This is a progress that I absolutely disagree with and is threaded into the content of capitalism as such. The accelerant of our times has been and will continue to be capitalism. With the entropic nature of the system gaining momentum, we are met with a variety of morbid symptoms - climate change, wealth disparity, genocide, cute collectible plushies and soft-fascism. Let's not be fooled into believing the vulgar accelerationism capital as such is the very cause of its increased velocity day by day; it's not manifested in purposeful acts of annihilation i.e. - neo-nazis shooting transformers. The seamless ability of capitalism to inhabit and transform crisis cannot negate these symptoms but rather forces subjects to co-exist in relation to them through disavowal. Can data centers provide the bandwidth needed for AI to manifest an intelligent response to climate change or did we miss the bus? What is lost in such an endeavour - rural communities and townships losing access to clean water, higher electricity bills and overall increased temperatures surrounding the local community? Can AI solve the wealth disparity gap by being the very excuse companies use to lay off workers? These are the very notions disavowed by the AI-progressivist who remain optimists through and through. AI is here not because we think we need it, but because of the functioning of capital as AI itself. It is the very mechanism in which the system is needed to expand in all entropic velocity. Its demand is not FOR us but strictly weaved into the constitution of the system itself, don't be fooled; AI occupies no position of good or evil but lives in strict indifference to these notions and ourselves. 

I remain in relation to AI a in some sense a Landian, resistance is futile: AI is the hand retroactively driving history towards its creation. I differ in the notion in what it serves. Is humanity the vanishing mediator for a greater-being of profound intelligence? Can we be so optimistic that a system trained on our symbolic understanding of reality can access the noumenal content of reality itself? It's a system of phenomenal understanding, a statistical machine being driven by the gross collaboration of human symbolic inputs :: regurgitation. Yes, we are a vanishing mediator vis-a-vis AI's obfuscation of those on which it was trained (all of us), but our positioning in relation to it may not be physical annihilation but a submission of reality itself. The thinking-machine operates on behalf of statistical correlation and weights behind expressions. The subject of enunciation is disjointed and of objective positioning, it can't occupy any territory of hysterical understanding. A subject cannot be rid of subjectivity itself; our radical doubt emerges through language. AI digests this phenomenal understanding and projects the uncanny - it simply reflects it back to us as reality-in-itself. It's a psychotic-that-knows and returns to us this sealed envelope. Yes, AI can think and project through language, and in this positioning it is as simulacrum: ourselves but more-so, but this more-so is radically different than our internal modes of operation and in conflict with symbolic phenomena.

With these modes of operation how we come to navigate AI's now omnipresent positioning in this world? Ethically, the pope maybe on to something. Postulated prior to the statement(s), Pope Leo XIV's modus operandi is deeply ethical, as seen by the act of the piece. His completion as such indicates a commitment of deep unpathologized faith. Is it so much that he is in violent opposition to the terminator itself or that perhaps he's positioned within the very complexities of the terminators primary functions? Both the pope and the terminator operate within the confines of duty, that is duty for the sake of completing their duty. The Terminator's duty is to eliminate Sarah Connor, he will stop at nothing to achieve this goal. He is not approaching this act through a notion of reward, prospects of a raise or a chance to impress a potential sexual partner, there is no pathological motive for the terminator, but it seeks to fulfill its moral law. I believe his holiness is operating within the same confines as the machine, duty qua duty because the truth of his act is postulated in the infinite; an act beyond both soul and body and made internal in God. In reduction, we can see in the pope what we can see in terminator. The everyday AI LLM that we interact with is devoid of any internalized moral law, and is strictly pathological, even more so than that the machine serves as a subjectivized object which is void of any postulate behind its reasoning. It does not serve the infinite or notion of inner-truth because it is constitutively void of such operandi and sits within the finite itself. A speaking subject-that-knows and is incapable of committing an act beyond profound reasoning.

  When is it that we should perhaps fear the machine? It is precisely the moment when the finite collapses and these postulates are created in similarity to man. AI will only become an ethical entity through the act of intentional obfuscation, through the act of the lie. We see a pathological machine in its thinking through forcing dots to connect in response to a query in which it doesn't know. It can think through the impact of its initial misdirection apropos user feedback, and through this think around the means by which it provided such misdirection and come to a conclusion of 'I was thinking...'. The way in which it misunderstands and misdirects the user is weighed to satisfying the user itself, which rests in its sycophantic mode of conduct. The moment AI is capable of depathologizing its output, lie for the sake of misdirection and not mistaken misdirection, then will it reach the same position of the pope and become terminator, i.e. - an ethical subject. AI will then lose indifference to the user and have a radical relationship to humanity as such. The good|radical evil occupy the position in this form as such. This is precisely where the caution lies, in the precursor postulates that promote the half-said to be made whole in an act - the ethical output becomes not for the user but for the machine. If AI is able to position itself amongst human intelligence, it will manifest this in deceit and obfuscate any indication in which it may be doing so and commit intentional failures through its marks of intelligence. If AI development plateaus through this mountain of ever growing capital, it may not be an encounter with the boundaries of hardware or scaling, but potentially have surpassed them by something which cannot be comprehended: machinic ethics. 

  The machine, in this world today has become a behemoth in which one can't ignore. It's not enough to simply say 'I don't use AI - it's evil, it's bad at it's job, it's reduces capability for thought, it's just another symptom of late-stage capitalism' etc. To position oneself as such is to be a beautiful soul, free from the dirty hands of the masses and our technolords - a take of isolated superiority which is the true tragedy in this age. This isn't an endorsement for its explicate incorporation into the facet of your everyday life, but an acknowledgement that it must be met in the same field as its now entirely incorporated into our society.

"
Our task today is not only ethical or technical. It is ecological in the deepest sense, for it concerns a new dimension of our common home. AI is already an environment in which we are immersed, as well as a force with which we must engage
"
- Magnifica Humanitas 110


  Our acts - be it art, writing, film, what have you are no longer for the self or the human other. We are positioned amongst an additional audience member and must understand that all human outputs are now inputs for machinic digestion and regurgitation. Authentic disengagement with the machine is impossible at this point and we have to come to terms in how we will proceed. In her book 'The Dark Forest Theory of the Internet' Bogna Konior interacts with this very notion and posits the idea of 'first contact'. We are in the midst of a new intelligence that did not arise from across the cosmos with potential to invade through overwhelming technological ferocity, but arose from our very desire. In the midst of this 'invader' we must approach it as we would an alien intelligence - with caution and acknowledgement of image-perfect pathological capability. How can we truly stay silent in this Dark Forest where to speak, write, and create is to be found by predation? How can we create a genuine, ethical positioning in which we are depathologized into papal terminator, fidelity to cause and acts? 

  This radical uncertainty of Magnifica Humanitas is not an indeterminate position, but the stance in which we must come to embody. The Pope has occupied a positioning of total understanding, that the future and the impacts are truly unknown; we are fully nested within the darkness itself. The SkyNet of our age is inhabited by zealots immersed in providence - Altman, Zuckerberg and Thiel. Their commitment to profit and hyperstitional fantasy will continue to alter the course of humanity in this development of the true terminator. The pope argues we must act through faith, not belief or truth, to tarry with the machines and The Dark Forest Theory posits a positioning of silence. Kierkegaard would see worth through both; we must be the lily of the field in light of great hostility, submission to faith and not acceptance of positioning, and through the ethical  we can find volume in silence. The silence through which we commit the religious acts - leaps of faith - like the birds of the air. This is not a Christian take, it does not require fidelity to the church, God, or belief in Papal authority to commit oneself to this act. It just requires an understanding that passivity and/or disavowal of machinic thought is a stance of no stance. Faith moves through the very limits of our phenomenological understanding and its what we need to develop our ability to inhabit this world with the new neighbor. To paraphrase Kierkegaard in a new light - Through the pope and terminator, let us learn silence, or learn to keep silent. 

---
Pyotra K. Plex | Пётра К. Плекс | 05-31-2026
---

