---
title: Entry 1 - After the Revolution
created: 2026-05-24
modified: 2026-05-24
tags: 
links: 
backlinks:
author: Pyotra K. Plex
word_count: 962
---
**==The_Act==**

Societal spirit can be encapsulated in the act. This act serves as a reflexive reaction to the subject's all ready occurred symbolic death; a rigor mortis of reactionary spirit. This final act of preservation can be retroactively understood as the punctuation at the end of a sentence, however in the moment the act's objective is to achieve a purely infinite continuation. This excitation of the act on behalf of the subject is strictly *jouissance*, the imperative and guiding hand to the event of failure or understood death --- *le petite mort* | *Оргазм*! Leftists today occupy this zone and through it we must move to tomorrow. 

In the events of August 1991 I witnessed invariably this failure of such an act. The T-80s in Red Square offered no glimpse of spirit or kismet, simply were manned by ghosts, projecting power as would a carousel. The act as such was a failure, a death rattle of soviet bureaucracy. Spirit took form in failure, a negative void that at that moment transferred to the hands of Yeltsin. We had come to be defined by this, the collapse of communism through perestroika, the event was always already collapsed into the failure as such. Unlike Hegel, I did not witness Napoleon riding his horse into Vienna that day, but instead the Fukuyama 'end of history'. Historical spirit committed this act to die with it. Yanayev, Gorbachev --- the only coup was that of Yeltsinian enjoyment. I fled to the west, the victor of the Cold War.

**==Algorithmic_Desire==**

My primary function in this former life was that of algorithms. Calculations set to predict/project our future and to be reconciled with the political doxa. We sought to predict the actions of a societal spectre and inquire on its opinions, determining the significance of an event and what purpose it may serve. Soviet truth rested in a gap between Истина <*istina*> (objective actuality) and Правда <*pravda*> (social truth). We could not feed the algorithms a perspective of possibility in correspondence with actuality but solely actuality itself. For example, steel production waxed and waned between 1980 and 1991, let's say 1985's figure of production was 147 million tons (actuality). This was fed into the machine amongst other factors (worker rosters, mining efficiency, budget, etc.)  and output a series of variations and projections in which to alter that which could in all possibility meet higher production outputs the following year. The resulting numbers output an actuality (objective in a sense if we trust these formulas) of the phenomena, i.e. our numbers were lower than the preceding year and needed to hit this target the following. The phenomena itself was interpreted with our internal postulates of truth/untruth. Yes, we saw actuality insofar as this year's numbers, but next year's rested in the realm of possibility. Are we becoming the nation without steel production or are we becoming steel production that is lacking all things soviet? The algorithmic machine become the embodiment of *istina*, identification with the numerical former. The desiring-machine of the soviet apparatus needed to operate on behalf of the latter and thus the initiative to produce a subject was ordered - a symbolic thought-machine inline with the idealogical doxa that could provide truth insofar as we posit what is constitutive of truth as such. This too died with Yeltsin.

**==Western_Progress==**

The 1990s marked the end of history, a repression which returned in force qua the obscenity of superegoic force. The 2016 presidential election in the United States is example par excellence. The collapse of the neo-liberal order was replaced with that of soft-fascistic/paternal order which saw the promised return of enjoyment to the masses. What was restricted in the social order is no more and the guise of the past become an ideal to strive for. The leftist mission of exclusive tolerance (we cannot tolerate your intolerance) is embedded with its own jouissance, and like that of the soviet coup, met the same fate which had failure inscribed into its very constitution. The political right has adopted their new form of desire-liberated: no more obstruction to enjoyment you may now fulfill your imperative to enjoy in excess. The algorithms I sought to create have returned with a new form as well, empowered by the subjective force of obfuscated authors communicating via the world wide web. AI LLMs fulfilled my mission to adhere to doxa, a machine which stands in all offensive juxtaposition to God. The other who-is-supposed-to-know as a statistical abomination. Instead of pravda qua faith, we're provided with with its regurgitation as istina. With this rise of a post-history capital fascism, machinic production of desire and climate catastrophe how do we stand to justify any notion of progress? Can we abandon progress as such? We can't stage a return to any idealised notion of the past yet we risk becoming obscene perverts. We must approach these issues as a new ocurrance and abandon the notion that the event originating from a failed act serves a teleological purpose, even when all seems hopeless. Zizek's notion of zero point encapsulates this:

"
Zero point is thus not the point at which things cannot get any worse - they can and they  arguably will get much worse. Zero point is the point - which can last quite a long time - when we are caught in a downward spiral and see no way out from within the coordinates of the existing order
"
Slavoj Zizek, Zero Point, pg.4

It is from here leftists must act ethically to stage the return of history as such and progress a revolutionary agenda.  

-----
Pyotra K. Plex | Пётра К. Плекс | 05-24-2026
