---
title: The_Hermit's_Hut::Artifical_Paradise
created: 2026-06-29
modified: 2026-06-01
tags: 
links: 
backlinks: 
word_count: 1850
---

==The_Hermit's_Hut::Artificial_Paradise== 

Media and art provides a spontaneous image; a snapshot of desire brought forth by a universal kernel of humanity. It thirsts for mediums in which it will be seen by the other, interpreted and digested. Art inhabits a spacial void and brings life to surplus and a radical self-centering of the mind through space and time. The  temporal image reflected in a user's mind is sourced from unproductive language constructed via tunnels past & future, that is it reconciles past impressions and retroactively creates a changing effect on the subject. The scaffolding of language through art becomes disembodied in a way :: Night of the World :: reduced to language without cause/need/desire to convey but providing an imagery in which only the subject can access. I cannot explain a piece's value and I cannot explain the internal/eternal image produced by a piece without restoring language to a utilitarian medium. To speak is to be misunderstood and to be speaking is to be reduced to a critic. The production of an image or lack of one, is strictly within the confines of the subject and their reflection on a piece. One is not missing the point of something if no reverberations are to be had. There is a spacial element to where art can create these internalized images and an unpretentious and welcoming space is key. I believe within the confines of home, a subject is most well positioned to internalize and reflect on these self-produced reflections on art and society.

Kurt Vonnegut in a 1996 interview shared an insightful thought on the notion of becoming and the profound impact home has on this process. His sentiment focused on that of the computer and the radical alterations it caused to the living space; having a computer in the home stifled becoming. It's easy to image how his take might have evolved if he were to be alive today, probably to point of hysterical alarm and reactionary violence! Our habitations today have become ground-zero for this merge of circuitry and self, and we increasingly rely on these explants to construct our identities. I, of course, am writing this post on on a laptop (I will say one of limited capability as it was produced closer to the time of Vonnegut's interview than today) on a program which I could access on one of three working computers in my sphere. I check the time, news, email and social between thoughts on my iPhone and read many articles through my Kindle. Home, with four or more walls and all its nooks and crannies, has evolved this extension of our own artificial 'I' through the introduction of these devices. In simpler times, a reactionary measure of throwing this shit into the trash and buying a typewriter might have sufficed. Now, I see the home through the Martrix-like waterfall of characters and (de)/construct identity through my very own firewall. 

We've erected barriers for cause, security and isolation. Nomadic hordes, traveling warbands, bandits, and starving missionaries have been so kindly honored through these means. Firewalls guard our homes and offices through the same terrain of hostility: cyber-deviants, information thieves and nomadic bots, in as much as they isolate users from the foreign 'agents' in more authoritarian walks of life. In our digital homes, we can simply lock the door and curate our access to the outside. Our permissive society is built on firewalls of binary and idealogical proportions. Access is limited to our kingdoms and we have our becoming within these confines. Perception to what we see is restricted by how we rule and we rage at these limitations we set for ourselves. The implant/explant firewall is the means in which we become in our homes and the introduction of devices capable of besieging the walls of others is our means.  We are in service to these walls and can define them as such via the gaze of those outside who do it better than us. 

What does it mean to be lacking in this capacity and in comparison to those who do it better than us? We see our homeowning friends from youth, captured in pixels proudly exposing themselves - new cars, 4 rooms, 2 kids, cute mini-bar, peloton etc. All we have is our stack of self-help books which say eat well and wake up early to work-out, disavow your anxiety and worship DISCIPLINE. Our becoming as such is always in comparison to those who do it better. Castration lives in our homes reminding us of the loss of that we never had. We erect our firewalls ever further in a phallic sword fight; winner lacks the lacking even less. What sees into and beyond our walls and homes is the Big Other: the gaze of the social authority which tells us how to live. The directive in comparison is of course consumption, and its imperative is enjoyment. We see ourselves through the other as having which in turn prompts a response to be made whole. Our wholeness can be 'achieved' through the acquisition of objects by a desire that cannot be satiated. Desire is always just out of reach, but yet the drive is to meet it at its very level. Through this, we can see how our computers and devices can stifle becoming by their portalesque nature. What they access offers us a digital space, similar to the physical foundations of a house. We inhabit digital ecosystems in curation by the other's design qua our being. In essence, we are in a performative relationship to the other inside and outside this world.    

How is that we find becoming? Is it do our reactionary duty and eliminate this cyberhome and trash our devices, to become ascetic trad wives and husbands? Not at all - embrace of minimalistic lifestyles is a performance all in itself. Is it to find our inner truth, kismet and live authentically? Both are shifting plates projected onto us by the other and in a sense impossible. Becoming itself is defined through castration, we are always in a position of lack in repose to our world. Is it to prescribe and evacuate these others which are preventing universality and corrupting society (Jewish peoples, migrants, LGBTQ+)? Obviously not. By emerging outside of nature, we cannot overcome a radical otherness in the other's eyes and instead must embrace our alienation as such. Our symptoms of castration are marks of human impossibility - this is not something we can overcome but instead traverse. No thing in or portion of society is to blame for our alienation; it is it's very constitution that drives it and provides means to overcome to be made whole, which are always false. Capitalism offers a rapid response to such crisis and in itself thrives through it's commodities of excess and identification - can't drink Coke because of high sugar, well try Coke Zero! If you're glued to the phone, well then buy our dumb phones to improve your life. Feeling anxious, buy this self-help book. Feeling not so manly, take an 84 month 16% interest loan on the new F150 with no money down! etc. We ascribe a fetishistic disavowal on objects, which in turn believe for us. That new truck will believe in my masculinity for me to make me whole and so on.

I don't believe that our devices limit becoming inside the confines of our home. Becoming isn't about making life harder for yourself, working through challenges of your own design and disregarding the changes in technological development. Computers and smartphones have allowed for much good and accessibility to our outside world. I do believe, however, that they offer greater access to and in pleasure of the social authority. In the eye of the Big Other, we have to prove our worth to identify with the symbolic order, a means which is forever out of reach. We have to put ourselves on display as the subject-without-lack and share our enjoyment, *jouissance*, with the other. Pure identification in the symbolic order is met with having to response to continual identity crises and submit to the pressure - continually consummate your status. In this, we have the revolutionary kernel of alienation: the friction between the subject and social authority. We are all alienated beings and alienation is constitutive of identify itself. Masters engaged in discourse that promise a means to overcome alienation is always false. Through this we see acts of extreme violence, such as ongoing the genocide against Palestinian peoples and ICE crackdowns in the United States. Our alienation is enhanced by the machinations of our age and reinforced by tautology - 'it is what it is'. In the imperative to engage and uphold our positioning in the symbolic order we've seen alienation reach extreme points; society is becoming much more inward. Places of public gatherings have been reduced to areas promoting the acquisition of commodities, public transport is terrible and our digital spaces are fraught with advertisements ensuring the imperative is not forgotten. Our homes, for those fortunate to have a place to call as such, are areas of respite. They offer a space for silently engaging with our alienation but are now reduced to micro-shops and pleasure in continual engagement and escapism. The loneliness epidemic is real despite of the seemingly connectedness of our modern day. 

Subject is built into the order of alienation and it is imperative to how we operate. Full identification with the symbolic order and the subject would vaporize into the void, become sealed and reduced to machine or be objectively dead. In a return to the idea of artistic imagination posited at the beginning of this writing - we can see immense gratification that occurs with alienation. The artificial paradises of immediate enjoyment and consumption are constructed via firewalls which can be radically altered to a more imaginative positioning. Working through these, a sense of direction can emerge qua purposeful reimagining of our spaces. In dramatic repositioning, these walls can shifted to that of a hermit's hut. Intimate but in need of continual maintenance. A home that provokes poetic imagery yet is constitutive of the subject's becoming-with-lack. In deeply imperfect walls and body we can permit transgressions of the phallic order to exist, not create a means to appear as if we occupy the same rung of the ladder. These transgressions cannot be eliminated without a performance as such, a performance for the very order in which we internally/eternally detest. A production of work catering to our poetic imagery to engaging with our alienation. Creation as such doesn't require intent to create; we don't have to commit to generating beautiful paintings and poems. When we engage with mediums of imaginative proportions, we internalize that work and become like author. We engrave our contribution to pieces through and by the phenomenal image that follows in our mind, which is internal to subject as such. Through this perhaps we can come to 'touch grass' and become in our light.    

---
E-Katerina Gospodin | E-KG | 06-29-2026

# ai_and_art
